unison-src/transcripts/delete-namespace.output.md, before:

# delete.namespace.force

```unison
no_dependencies.thing = "no dependents on this term"

dependencies.term1 = 1
dependencies.term2 = 2

dependents.usage1 = dependencies.term1 + dependencies.term2
dependents.usage2 = dependencies.term1 * dependencies.term2
```

Deleting a namespace with no external dependencies should succeed.

```ucm
.> delete.namespace no_dependencies

  Done.

```
Deleting a namespace with external dependencies should fail and list all dependents.

```ucm
.> delete.namespace dependencies

  ⚠️
  
  I didn't delete the namespace because the following
  definitions are still in use.
  
  Dependency   Referenced In
  term2        1. dependents.usage1
               2. dependents.usage2
               
  term1        3. dependents.usage1
               4. dependents.usage2
  
  If you want to proceed anyways and leave those definitions
  without names, use delete.namespace.force

```
Deleting a namespace with external dependencies should succeed when using `delete.namespace.force`

```ucm
.> delete.namespace.force dependencies

  Done.

  ⚠️
  
  Of the things I deleted, the following are still used in the
  following definitions. They now contain un-named references.
  
  Dependency   Referenced In
  term2        1. dependents.usage1
               2. dependents.usage2
               
  term1        3. dependents.usage1
               4. dependents.usage2

```
I should be able to view an affected dependency by number

```ucm
.> view 2

  dependents.usage2 : Nat
  dependents.usage2 =
    use Nat *
    #gjmq673r1v * #dcgdua2lj6

```
Deleting the root namespace should require confirmation if not forced.

```ucm
.> delete.namespace .

  ⚠️
  
  Are you sure you want to clear away everything?
  You could use `namespace` to switch to a new namespace instead.

.> delete.namespace .

  Okay, I deleted everything except the history. Use `undo` to
  undo, or `builtins.merge` to restore the absolute basics to
  the current path.

```
Deleting the root namespace shouldn't require confirmation if forced.

```ucm
.> delete.namespace.force .

  Okay, I deleted everything except the history. Use `undo` to
  undo, or `builtins.merge` to restore the absolute basics to
  the current path.

```

Commit message:

Also wipe out history on root deletes

unison-src/transcripts/delete-namespace.output.md, after:

# delete.namespace.force

```unison
no_dependencies.thing = "no dependents on this term"

dependencies.term1 = 1
dependencies.term2 = 2

dependents.usage1 = dependencies.term1 + dependencies.term2
dependents.usage2 = dependencies.term1 * dependencies.term2
```

Deleting a namespace with no external dependencies should succeed.

```ucm
.> delete.namespace no_dependencies

  Done.

```
Deleting a namespace with external dependencies should fail and list all dependents.

```ucm
.> delete.namespace dependencies

  ⚠️
  
  I didn't delete the namespace because the following
  definitions are still in use.
  
  Dependency   Referenced In
  term2        1. dependents.usage1
               2. dependents.usage2
               
  term1        3. dependents.usage1
               4. dependents.usage2
  
  If you want to proceed anyways and leave those definitions
  without names, use delete.namespace.force

```
Deleting a namespace with external dependencies should succeed when using `delete.namespace.force`

```ucm
.> delete.namespace.force dependencies

  Done.

  ⚠️
  
  Of the things I deleted, the following are still used in the
  following definitions. They now contain un-named references.
  
  Dependency   Referenced In
  term2        1. dependents.usage1
               2. dependents.usage2
               
  term1        3. dependents.usage1
               4. dependents.usage2

```
I should be able to view an affected dependency by number

```ucm
.> view 2

  dependents.usage2 : Nat
  dependents.usage2 =
    use Nat *
    #gjmq673r1v * #dcgdua2lj6

```
Deleting the root namespace should require confirmation if not forced.

```ucm
.> delete.namespace .

  ⚠️
  
  Are you sure you want to clear away everything?
  You could use `namespace` to switch to a new namespace instead.

.> delete.namespace .

  Okay, I deleted everything except the history. Use `undo` to
  undo, or `builtins.merge` to restore the absolute basics to
  the current path.

-- Should have an empty history
.> history .

  ☝️  The namespace . is empty.

```
Deleting the root namespace shouldn't require confirmation if forced.

```ucm
.> delete.namespace.force .

  Okay, I deleted everything except the history. Use `undo` to
  undo, or `builtins.merge` to restore the absolute basics to
  the current path.

-- Should have an empty history
.> history .

  ☝️  The namespace . is empty.

```
