unison-src/transcripts/name-selection.md, before:

This transcript shows how the pretty-printer picks names for a hash when multiple are available. The algorithm is:

1. Names that are "name-only" come before names that are hash qualified. So `List.map` comes before `List.map#2384a` and also `aaaa#xyz`.
2. Shorter names (in terms of segment count) come before longer ones, for instance `base.List.map` comes before `somelibrary.external.base.List.map`.
3. Otherwise if there are multiple names with a minimal number of segments, compare the names alphabetically.

```ucm:hide
.> alias.type ##Nat Nat
.> alias.term ##Nat.+ Nat.+
```

```unison:hide
a = b + 1
b = 0 + 1
```

Will add `a` and `b` to the codebase and give `b` a longer (in terms of segment length alias), and show that it isn't used when viewing `a`:

```ucm
.a> add
.a> alias.term b aaa.but.more.segments
.a> view a
.> cd .
```

Next let's introduce a conflicting symbol and show that its hash qualified name isn't used when it has an unconflicted name:

```
.> fork a a2
.> fork a a3
```

```unison:hide
c = 1
d = c + 10
```

```ucm:hide
.a2> builtins.merge
```
```ucm
.a2> add
.a2> alias.term c long.name.but.shortest.suffixification
```

```unison:hide
c = 2
d = c + 10
```

```ucm
.a3> add
.a3> merge .a2 .a3
```

At this point, `a3` is conflicted for symbols `c` and `d`, so those are deprioritized. 
The original `a2` namespace has an unconflicted definition for `c` and `d`, but since there are multiple 'c's in scope, 
`long.name.but.shortest.suffixification` is chosen because its suffixified version has the fewest segments.

```ucm
.> view a b c d
```

## Name biasing

```unison
deeply.nested.term = 
  a + 1

deeply.nested.value = 10

a = 10
```

```ucm
.biasing> add
-- Despite being saved with name `a`, 
-- the pretty printer should prefer the suffixified 'deeply.nested.value name' over the shallow 'a'.
-- It's closer to the term being printed.
.biasing> view deeply.nested.term
```

Add another term with `value` suffix to force longer suffixification of `deeply.nested.value`

```unison
other.value = 20
```

```ucm
.biasing> add
-- nested.value should still be preferred even if the suffixification requires more segments than `a`
.biasing> view deeply.nested.term
```

Commit message:

Swap name priority so shorter fqn come first (#3618)
* Swap name priority so shorter fqn come first

* Update transcripts

unison-src/transcripts/name-selection.md, after:

This transcript shows how the pretty-printer picks names for a hash when multiple are available. The algorithm is:

1. Names that are "name-only" come before names that are hash qualified. So `List.map` comes before `List.map#2384a` and also `aaaa#xyz`.
2. Shorter names (in terms of segment count) come before longer ones, for instance `base.List.map` comes before `somelibrary.external.base.List.map`.
3. Otherwise if there are multiple names with a minimal number of segments, compare the names alphabetically.

```ucm:hide
.> alias.type ##Nat Nat
.> alias.term ##Nat.+ Nat.+
```

```unison:hide
a = b + 1
b = 0 + 1
```

Will add `a` and `b` to the codebase and give `b` a longer (in terms of segment length alias), and show that it isn't used when viewing `a`:

```ucm
.a> add
.a> alias.term b aaa.but.more.segments
.a> view a
.> cd .
```

Next let's introduce a conflicting symbol and show that its hash qualified name isn't used when it has an unconflicted name:

```
.> fork a a2
.> fork a a3
```

```unison:hide
c = 1
d = c + 10
```

```ucm:hide
.a2> builtins.merge
```
```ucm
.a2> add
.a2> alias.term c long.name.but.shortest.suffixification
```

```unison:hide
c = 2
d = c + 10
```

```ucm
.a3> add
.a3> merge .a2 .a3
```

At this point, `a3` is conflicted for symbols `c` and `d`, so those are deprioritized. 
The original `a2` namespace has an unconflicted definition for `c` and `d`, but since there are multiple 'c's in scope, 
`a2.c` is chosen because although the suffixified version has fewer segments, its fully-qualified name has the fewest segments.

```ucm
.> view a b c d
```

## Name biasing

```unison
deeply.nested.term = 
  a + 1

deeply.nested.value = 10

a = 10
```

```ucm
.biasing> add
-- Despite being saved with name `a`, 
-- the pretty printer should prefer the suffixified 'deeply.nested.value name' over the shallow 'a'.
-- It's closer to the term being printed.
.biasing> view deeply.nested.term
```

Add another term with `value` suffix to force longer suffixification of `deeply.nested.value`

```unison
other.value = 20
```

```ucm
.biasing> add
-- nested.value should be preferred over the shorter name `a` due to biasing
-- because `deeply.nested.value` is nearby to the term being viewed.
.biasing> view deeply.nested.term
```
