unison-src/transcripts/resolution-failures.output.md, before:

# Resolution Errors

This transcript tests the errors printed to the user when a name cannot be resolved.

## Codebase Setup

First we define differing types with the same name in different namespaces:

```ucm
.> cd example.resolution_failures

  ☝️  The namespace .example.resolution_failures is empty.

```
Now let's add a term named `a.foo`:

```unison
unique type one.AmbiguousType = one.AmbiguousType
unique type two.AmbiguousType = two.AmbiguousType

one.ambiguousTerm = "term one"
two.ambiguousTerm = "term two"
```

```ucm

  I found and typechecked these definitions in scratch.u. If you
  do an `add` or `update`, here's how your codebase would
  change:
  
    ⍟ These new definitions are ok to `add`:
    
      unique type one.AmbiguousType
      unique type two.AmbiguousType
      one.ambiguousTerm : ##Text
      two.ambiguousTerm : ##Text

```
```ucm
.example.resolution_failures> add

  ⍟ I've added these definitions:
  
    unique type one.AmbiguousType
    unique type two.AmbiguousType
    one.ambiguousTerm : ##Text
    two.ambiguousTerm : ##Text

```
## Tests

Now we introduce code which isn't sufficiently qualified. 
It is ambiguous which type from which namespace we mean.

We expect the output to:

1. Print all ambiguous usage sites separately
2. Print possible disambiguation suggestions for each unique ambiguity

```unison
-- We intentionally avoid using a constructor to ensure the constructor doesn't
-- affect type resolution.
useAmbiguousType : AmbiguousType -> ()
useAmbiguousType _ = ()

useUnknownType : UnknownType -> ()
useUnknownType _ = ()

-- Despite being a duplicate disambiguation, this should still be included in the annotations printout
separateAmbiguousTypeUsage : AmbiguousType -> ()
separateAmbiguousTypeUsage _ = ()
```

```ucm

  
    ❓
    
    I couldn't resolve any of these symbols:
    
        3 | useAmbiguousType : AmbiguousType -> ()
        4 | useAmbiguousType _ = ()
        5 | 
        6 | useUnknownType : UnknownType -> ()
        7 | useUnknownType _ = ()
        8 | 
        9 | -- Despite being a duplicate disambiguation, this should still be included in the annotations printout
       10 | separateAmbiguousTypeUsage : AmbiguousType -> ()
    
    
    Symbol          Suggestions
                    
    AmbiguousType   one.AmbiguousType
                    two.AmbiguousType
                    
    UnknownType     No matches
  

```
Currently, ambiguous terms are caught and handled by type directed name resolution,
but expect it to eventually be handled by the above machinery.

```unison
useAmbiguousTerm = ambiguousTerm
```

```ucm

  I'm not sure what ambiguousTerm means at line 1, columns 20-33
  
      1 | useAmbiguousTerm = ambiguousTerm
  
  There are no constraints on its type. I found some terms in scope that have matching names and types. Maybe you meant one of these:
  
    - one.ambiguousTerm : ##Text
    - two.ambiguousTerm : ##Text

```

Commit message:

Improve error message on missing names

unison-src/transcripts/resolution-failures.output.md, after:

# Resolution Errors

This transcript tests the errors printed to the user when a name cannot be resolved.

## Codebase Setup

First we define differing types with the same name in different namespaces:

```ucm
.> cd example.resolution_failures

  ☝️  The namespace .example.resolution_failures is empty.

```
Now let's add a term named `a.foo`:

```unison
unique type one.AmbiguousType = one.AmbiguousType
unique type two.AmbiguousType = two.AmbiguousType

one.ambiguousTerm = "term one"
two.ambiguousTerm = "term two"
```

```ucm

  I found and typechecked these definitions in scratch.u. If you
  do an `add` or `update`, here's how your codebase would
  change:
  
    ⍟ These new definitions are ok to `add`:
    
      unique type one.AmbiguousType
      unique type two.AmbiguousType
      one.ambiguousTerm : ##Text
      two.ambiguousTerm : ##Text

```
```ucm
.example.resolution_failures> add

  ⍟ I've added these definitions:
  
    unique type one.AmbiguousType
    unique type two.AmbiguousType
    one.ambiguousTerm : ##Text
    two.ambiguousTerm : ##Text

```
## Tests

Now we introduce code which isn't sufficiently qualified. 
It is ambiguous which type from which namespace we mean.

We expect the output to:

1. Print all ambiguous usage sites separately
2. Print possible disambiguation suggestions for each unique ambiguity

```unison
-- We intentionally avoid using a constructor to ensure the constructor doesn't
-- affect type resolution.
useAmbiguousType : AmbiguousType -> ()
useAmbiguousType _ = ()

useUnknownType : UnknownType -> ()
useUnknownType _ = ()

-- Despite being a duplicate disambiguation, this should still be included in the annotations printout
separateAmbiguousTypeUsage : AmbiguousType -> ()
separateAmbiguousTypeUsage _ = ()
```

```ucm

  
    ❓
    
    I couldn't resolve any of these symbols:
    
        3 | useAmbiguousType : AmbiguousType -> ()
        4 | useAmbiguousType _ = ()
        5 | 
        6 | useUnknownType : UnknownType -> ()
        7 | useUnknownType _ = ()
        8 | 
        9 | -- Despite being a duplicate disambiguation, this should still be included in the annotations printout
       10 | separateAmbiguousTypeUsage : AmbiguousType -> ()
    
    
    Symbol          Suggestions
                    
    AmbiguousType   one.AmbiguousType
                    two.AmbiguousType
                    
    UnknownType     No matches
  

```
Currently, ambiguous terms are caught and handled by type directed name resolution,
but expect it to eventually be handled by the above machinery.

```unison
useAmbiguousTerm = ambiguousTerm
```

```ucm

  I couldn't find any definitions matching the name ambiguousTerm inside the namespace .example.resolution_failures
  
      1 | useAmbiguousTerm = ambiguousTerm
  
  Some common causes of this error include:
    * Your current perspective is too deep to contain the
      definition in its subtree
    * The definition is part of a library which hasn't been
      added to this project
  
  To add a library to this project use the command: `fork <.path.to.lib> .example.resolution_failures.lib.<libname>`
  
  There are no constraints on its type.
  
  I found some terms in scope that have matching names and types. Maybe you meant one of these:
  
    - one.ambiguousTerm : ##Text
    - two.ambiguousTerm : ##Text

```
