unison-src/transcripts-using-base/thread.output.md, before:

Lets just make sure we can start a thread

```unison
otherThread : '{io2.IO}()
otherThread = 'let
  watch "I'm the other Thread" ()

testBasicFork : '{io2.IO} [Result]
testBasicFork = 'let
  test = 'let
    watch "I'm the parent thread" ()
    threadId = .builtin.io2.IO.forkComp otherThread
    emit (Ok "created thread")

  runTest test

```

```ucm

  I found and typechecked these definitions in scratch.u. If you
  do an `add` or `update`, here's how your codebase would
  change:
  
    ⍟ These new definitions are ok to `add`:
    
      otherThread   : '{IO} ()
      testBasicFork : '{IO} [Result]

```
See if we can get another thread to stuff a value into a MVar

```unison
thread1 : Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{io2.IO}()
thread1 x mv = 'let
  go = 'let
    put mv (increment x)

  match (toEither go) with
    Left (Failure _ t _) -> watch t ()
    _ -> ()


testBasicMultiThreadMVar : '{io2.IO} [Result]
testBasicMultiThreadMVar = 'let
  test = 'let
    mv = !newEmpty
    .builtin.io2.IO.forkComp (thread1 10 mv)
    next = take mv
    expectU "other thread should have incremented" 11 next

  runTest test


```

```ucm

  I found and typechecked these definitions in scratch.u. If you
  do an `add` or `update`, here's how your codebase would
  change:
  
    ⍟ These new definitions are ok to `add`:
    
      testBasicMultiThreadMVar : '{IO} [Result]
      thread1                  : Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{IO} ()

```
```ucm
.> add

  ⍟ I've added these definitions:
  
    testBasicMultiThreadMVar : '{IO} [Result]
    thread1                  : Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{IO} ()

.> io.test testBasicMultiThreadMVar

    New test results:
  
  ◉ testBasicMultiThreadMVar   other thread should have incremented
  
  ✅ 1 test(s) passing
  
  Tip: Use view testBasicMultiThreadMVar to view the source of a
       test.

```
```unison
sendingThread: Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{io2.IO}()
sendingThread toSend mv = 'let
  go = 'let
    put mv (increment toSend)

  match (toEither go) with
    Left (Failure _ t _) -> watch t ()
    _ -> ()


receivingThread: MVar Nat -> MVar Text -> '{io2.IO}()
receivingThread recv send = 'let
  go = 'let
    recvd = take recv
    put send (toText recvd)

  match (toEither go) with
    Left (Failure _ t _) -> watch t ()
    _ -> ()

testTwoThreads: '{io2.IO}[Result]
testTwoThreads = 'let
  test = 'let
    send = !MVar.newEmpty
    recv = !MVar.newEmpty

    .builtin.io2.IO.forkComp (sendingThread 6 send)
    .builtin.io2.IO.forkComp (receivingThread send recv)

    recvd = take recv

    expectU "" "7" recvd

  runTest test

```

```ucm

  I found and typechecked these definitions in scratch.u. If you
  do an `add` or `update`, here's how your codebase would
  change:
  
    ⍟ These new definitions are ok to `add`:
    
      receivingThread : MVar Nat -> MVar Text -> '{IO} ()
      sendingThread   : Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{IO} ()
        (also named thread1)
      testTwoThreads  : '{IO} [Result]

```
```ucm
.> add

  ⍟ I've added these definitions:
  
    receivingThread : MVar Nat -> MVar Text -> '{IO} ()
    sendingThread   : Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{IO} ()
      (also named thread1)
    testTwoThreads  : '{IO} [Result]

.> io.test testTwoThreads

    New test results:
  
  ◉ testTwoThreads   
  
  ✅ 1 test(s) passing
  
  Tip: Use view testTwoThreads to view the source of a test.

```

Commit message:

All the failing transcripts from removing global fallback support

unison-src/transcripts-using-base/thread.output.md, after:

Lets just make sure we can start a thread

```unison
otherThread : '{io2.IO}()
otherThread = 'let
  watch "I'm the other Thread" ()

testBasicFork : '{io2.IO} [Result]
testBasicFork = 'let
  test = 'let
    watch "I'm the parent thread" ()
    threadId = .builtin.io2.IO.forkComp otherThread
    emit (Ok "created thread")

  runTest test

```

```ucm

  I found and typechecked these definitions in scratch.u. If you
  do an `add` or `update`, here's how your codebase would
  change:
  
    ⍟ These new definitions are ok to `add`:
    
      otherThread   : '{IO} ()
      testBasicFork : '{IO} [Result]

```
See if we can get another thread to stuff a value into a MVar

```unison
thread1 : Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{io2.IO}()
thread1 x mv = 'let
  go = 'let
    put mv (increment x)

  match (toEither go) with
    Left (Failure _ t _) -> watch t ()
    _ -> ()


testBasicMultiThreadMVar : '{io2.IO} [Result]
testBasicMultiThreadMVar = 'let
  test = 'let
    mv = !newEmpty
    .builtin.io2.IO.forkComp (thread1 10 mv)
    next = take mv
    expectU "other thread should have incremented" 11 next

  runTest test


```

```ucm

  I found and typechecked these definitions in scratch.u. If you
  do an `add` or `update`, here's how your codebase would
  change:
  
    ⍟ These new definitions are ok to `add`:
    
      testBasicMultiThreadMVar : '{IO} [Result]
      thread1                  : Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{IO} ()

```
```ucm
.> add

  ⍟ I've added these definitions:
  
    testBasicMultiThreadMVar : '{IO} [Result]
    thread1                  : Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{IO} ()

.> io.test testBasicMultiThreadMVar

    New test results:
  
  ◉ testBasicMultiThreadMVar   other thread should have incremented
  
  ✅ 1 test(s) passing
  
  Tip: Use view testBasicMultiThreadMVar to view the source of a
       test.

```
```unison
sendingThread: Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{io2.IO}()
sendingThread toSend mv = 'let
  go = 'let
    put mv (increment toSend)

  match (toEither go) with
    Left (Failure _ t _) -> watch t ()
    _ -> ()


receivingThread: MVar Nat -> MVar Text -> '{io2.IO}()
receivingThread recv send = 'let
  go = 'let
    recvd = take recv
    put send (toText recvd)

  match (toEither go) with
    Left (Failure _ t _) -> watch t ()
    _ -> ()

testTwoThreads: '{io2.IO}[Result]
testTwoThreads = 'let
  test = 'let
    send = !MVar.newEmpty
    recv = !MVar.newEmpty

    .builtin.io2.IO.forkComp (sendingThread 6 send)
    .builtin.io2.IO.forkComp (receivingThread send recv)

    recvd = take recv

    expectU "" "7" recvd

  runTest test

```

```ucm

  I found and typechecked these definitions in scratch.u. If you
  do an `add` or `update`, here's how your codebase would
  change:
  
    ⍟ These new definitions are ok to `add`:
    
      receivingThread : MVar Nat -> MVar Text -> '{IO} ()
      sendingThread   : Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{IO} ()
        (also named thread1)
      testTwoThreads  : '{IO} [Result]

```
```ucm
.> add

  ⍟ I've added these definitions:
  
    receivingThread : MVar Nat -> MVar Text -> '{IO} ()
    sendingThread   : Nat -> MVar Nat -> '{IO} ()
      (also named thread1)
    testTwoThreads  : '{IO} [Result]

.> io.test testTwoThreads

    New test results:
  
  ✗ testTwoThreads   
  
  🚫 1 test(s) failing
  
  Tip: Use view testTwoThreads to view the source of a test.

```



🛑

The transcript failed due to an error in the stanza above. The error is:


    New test results:
  
  ✗ testTwoThreads   
  
  🚫 1 test(s) failing
  
  Tip: Use view testTwoThreads to view the source of a test.
